Task #1: Introduction 

WareVille has not felt right since the wormhole appeared. Everyone in TBFC is on high alert: Systems are going haywire, dashboards are spiking, and SOC alerts have been firing nonstop. Amid the chaos, McSkidy keeps her focus on a particular alert that caught her interest: an email posing as northpole-hr. It’s littered with carrot emojis, but the weird thing is this: there is no North Pole human resources department. TBFC’s HR is at theSouth Pole.

Digging further she found a tiny PowerShell file from that email was downloaded. Among the code are random strings of characters, all gibberish, nothing readable at a glance.

McSkidy knows malicious actors often hide code and data using a technique called obfuscation. But what is it, really? And how can we decipher it?

Learning Objectives: 
- Learn about obfuscation, why and where it is used.
- Learn the difference between encoding, encryption, and obfuscation.
- Learn about obfuscation and the common techniques.
- Use CyberChef to recover plaintext safely.
- Connecting to the Machine

Before moving forward, review the questions in the connection card shown below:

Visual guide that has states VM in Split Screen

Start your VM by clicking the Start Machine button below. The machine will start in split view and will take about two minutes to load. In case the machine is not visible, you can click the Show Split View button at the top of the task.

Set up your virtual environment
To successfully complete this room, you'll need to set up your virtual environment. This involves starting the Target Machine, ensuring you're equipped with the necessary tools and access to tackle the challenges ahead.

>>
>> Start  Target Machine

Alternatively, you can use the credentials below to connect to the target machine via RDP from your own THM VPN connected machine:

Credentials:
Only needed if you are using your own THM VPN connected machine.

Username: Administrator  
Password: @TryObfusc4t3M393!  

IP address: 
MACHINE_IP  

Connection via: RDP

 
Answer the questions below:
Start the target machine and continue with the next task.

No answer needed ✅ Correct Answer



Task #2: Obfuscation & Deobfuscation

Understanding the Gibberish
Obfuscation is the practice of making data hard to read and analyze. Attackers use it to evade basic detection and delay investigations. 

Let us say, a security tool will automatically block any file that contains the word the bandit yeti. To evade this, attackers can use a simple cipher technique called "ROT1" to hide the string.

ROT1 is a cipher technique that shifts each letter forward by 1 in the alphabet. The letter a becomes b, b becomes c, and so on. Using this cipher, carrot coins go brr becomes dbsspu dpjot hp css.

A visual aid showing the word CARROT changing to DBBSPU.

This can be further complicated by using ROT13, which moves the characters forward by 13 spaces.

Obfuscation in the Real World
So far, we've kept it simple. In the real world, you’ll encounter a wider range of techniques. 

One slightly more complicated technique would be utilizing XOR. Each character is represented as a byte, and each byte is combined with a key using the XOR mathematical operation. No need to go into the details as to how it works. The only thing you need to know is that this operation changes the bytes into different bytes, which sometimes makes the resulting text end up with uncommon symbols or non-readable characters.

Obfuscating with XOR is not something that can be easily done manually. But thankfully, there are tools available that can help us with this. One such widely used tool is called CyberChef.

Let's try to obfuscate a string using XOR by following the steps below:

Open CyberChef by visiting this link in your browser.
At the top right, you’ll see an Input box. This is where you paste the text you want to change/obfuscate. In our case, use carrot supremacy.
In the left pane under Operations, search for “XOR” and drag it into the middle under Recipe. This tells CyberChef to apply that technique to your Input text.
Each operation has settings you can adjust. In our case, we set the Key to a. Make sure that the dropdown next to Key is set to HEX.
The obfuscated result should automatically appear in the Output section. If it doesn’t, click BAKE! at the bottom of the screen.
As you can see above, the string carrot supremacy now becomes ikxxe~*yzxogkis!

Detecting Patterns
The good thing about well-known obfuscation techniques is that it's easy to reverse it once you figure out the technique used.

You can use these quick visual clues to guess the obfuscation technique used:

ROT1 - common words look “one letter off”, spaces stay the same. Easy enough to detect.
ROT13 - Look for three-letter words. Common ones like  the become gur. And and becomes naq. spaces stay the same.
Base64 - Long strings containing mostly alphanumeric characters (i.e., A-Z, a-z, 0–9), sometimes with + or /, often ending in = or ==.
XOR - A bit more tricky. Looks like random symbols but stays the same length as the original. If a short secret was reused, you may notice a tiny repeat every few characters.
Once you have a guess on what cipher was used, you can go back to CyberChef, but this time use an operation that does the reverse effect. For example, to deobfuscate Base64 you use From Base64 instead of To Base64.

A screenshot of the From Base64 Operation in CyberChef

Unfamiliar Patterns
Not sure what you’re looking at? It's fine. Even if you don't have an idea of what cipher was used, it is easy enough to keep on trying different operations just to see if the text becomes readable.

CyberChef also includes an operation called Magic that automatically guesses and tries common decoders for you. To use it, just add the Magic operation and look at the results. It will display multiple results and it's up to you to check which one ends up making sense. You can even check "Intensive mode" to make sure it tests more possibilities before giving up.

A screenshot of the results of a Magic Operation in CyberChef.

Of course, this won’t catch everything (especially custom XOR keys or unusual layers)! So, use it as a hint to help you in figuring it out. For example, one of the questions below cannot be fully solved with the Magic operation alone.

Layered Obfuscation
To make deobfuscation harder, threat actors would often combine multiple techniques, almost like a layered approach.

For example, a script that threat actors want hidden can be compressed with gzip, XOR'ed with a x key, then finally Base64-encoded will produce this obfuscated string: H4sIADKZ42gA/32PT2sqQRDE7/MpitGDgrPEJJcXyOGha1xwVaLwyLvI6rbuhP3HTHswm/3uzmggIQfrUD3VzI/u7iDXljepNkFth6KDmYsWnBF2R2OoZOyrPCUDXSKB1UWdEzjZ5hQI8c9oJrU4cn1kyPXbMgRW0X/nF8WLcTSJwvFX9Jr/jUP5i1NOgPeLfjxvtKQQL8RqlOk8jZgKfGJSmTDZZWqxfacdoxFAl0814Rl6j153EyxXkR1VJSe6JNNHAzmOXiHRgnJLPk+iWeiyR63+uIm6Hb5B92NG5YGzK5sm7FnfTSxfzl3rgoJ1tWKjy0NPnpxUHKs0xXT6VBSy7zjZ3A3UY4tmOPjTAs29t4dWQu2vpwyua7niJ7iyCeZJQaIVZ/xwdy/JAQAA

To reverse this kind of layered obfuscation, apply the operations in the opposite order: Base64-decode, XOR with x, then decompress gzip. The screenshot below shows how to chain these Operations to recover the original content.

A screenshot containing multiple operations in CyberChef

Unwrapping the Easter Egg
Luckily, McSkidy detected something phishy in the email we received. She extracted a PowerShell script from the PDF and put it on an isolated VM to figure out what it's doing. There is some obfuscation in this script, can you help her understand what it is?

Open SantaStealer.ps1, located on the VM's Desktop in Visual Studio by double clicking it (takes a moment to open), and navigate to the "Start here" section of the script. Follow the instructions in the code's comments and save, then run the script from a PowerShell terminal to get your first flag. To open PowerShell, click Start (or press the Windows key), type "PowerShell", and press Enter. In the PowerShell terminal, run the two commands shown in the script’s comments.

PowerShell Terminal
PS C:\Users\Administrator> cd .\Desktop\
PS C:\Users\Administrator\Desktop> .\SantaStealer.ps1

There is a second challenge waiting for you. This time, you must obfuscate the malicious actor's API key using XOR. Follow the Part 2 instructions in the code's comments and then run the script again to get your last flag!



Answer the questions below:
What is the first flag you get after deobfuscating the C2 URL and running the script?

THM{flag_redacted} ✅ Correct Answer

What is the second flag you get after obfuscating the API key and running the script again?

THM{flag_redacted} ✅ Correct Answer

If you want to learn more about Obfuscation, check out our Obfuscation Principles room!

No answer needed ✅ Correct Answer
